Adds a metrics capabilities page for Pomerium Zero (#1635)
pomerium/documentation: content/docs/capabilities/metrics.md

![A chart displaying request duration in Pomerium Zero](./img/metrics/zero-request-duration.png)

The second chart organizes requests by percentile ranges, date, and time.

![A chart displaying request duration in Pomerium Zero](./img/metrics/zero-request-duration-second-chart.png)

### Requests per second

The **Requests per second** chart calculates the average amount of proxied requests per second over the span of an hour. Requests are organized by date and time, and categorized by the following response status codes:

- **200s** (200-299): successful responses
- **300s** (300-399): redirection messages
- **400s** (400-499): client error responses
- **500s** (500-599): server error responses

![A chart displaying requests per second in Pomerium Zero](./img/metrics/zero-requests-per-second.png)

### Bytes sent and received

The **Bytes sent** and **Bytes received** charts display the average amount of bytes sent and received over the span of an hour.

![A chart displaying bytes sent and received in Pomerium Zero](./img/metrics/zero-bytes-sent-received.png)

## Metrics in Pomerium Enterprise

> In Pomerium Enterprise, you must configure metrics before you can view them. Metrics are not enabled by default, and are not required to run Pomerium Enterprise. See the **Configure Metrics** guide to learn how to enable metrics in your Enterprise deployment.

Author: I have to merge https://github.com/pomerium/documentation/pull/1621 first.

---
# cSpell:ignore XPOST tsdb

title: Metrics in Pomerium
sidebar_label: Metrics
description: Learn how Pomerium collects and displays metrics in Pomerium Zero and Pomerium Enterprise.
lang: en-US
keywords:
  [pomerium, pomerium enterprise, telemetry, metrics, prometheus, pomerium zero]
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs'; import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

Metrics in Pomerium provide observability and monitoring data from your Pomerium deployment. Use metrics to review traffic and its effects on your system.

> Metrics are available only in Pomerium Zero and Pomerium Enterprise deployments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pomerium exposes standard Prometheus metrics related to its operation. 
Open source users need [configure](/docs/reference/metrics) metrics collection and visualization manually. 
Pomerium Zero and Pomerium Enterprise have simplified collection and visualization built-in. 
```

![A chart displaying requests per second in Pomerium Enterprise](./img/metrics/enterprise-request-rate.png)

The **Response Codes** chart organizes requests by date and time, and categorizes them with the following response status codes:

- **HTTP 2xx** (200-299): successful responses
- **HTTP 3xx** (300-399): redirection messages
- **HTTP 4xx** (400-499): client error responses
- **HTTP 5xx** (500-599): server error responses

![A response codes chart in Pomerium Enterprise](./img/metrics/enterprise-response-status-codes.gif)

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Bytes sent and received, request size

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="zero" label="Zero">

The **Bytes sent** and **Bytes received** charts display the average amount of bytes sent and received over the span of an hour.

![A chart displaying bytes sent and received in Pomerium Zero](./img/metrics/zero-bytes-sent-received.png)

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="enterprise" label="Enterprise">

The **Request Size** chart organizes requests based on their request size measured in kilobytes (KB).

![A chart displaying response size in Pomerium Enterprise](./img/metrics/enterprise-request-size.png)

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

> ## Changesets and Deployments

Reviewer: this section is definitely unrelated to Metrics, and probably has to be moved to its own subsection.

Reviewer: right I think now that we merged _metrics_ content together for zero and enterprise its great. 

Maybe lets call the new section Changesets?

![Applying a changeset in Pomerium Zero](./img/metrics/zero-changesets.png)

After you've applied a change or a changeset, you can review them in the Deployments dashboard:

![Reviewing changesets in Pomerium Zero](./img/metrics/zero-deployments-changesets.gif)

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Enterprise" value="enterprise">

From the **Deployments** page, administrators can review changes made to their Pomerium configuration.

The default view shows all changes made through Pomerium Enterprise. Use the **COMPARE** button next to an entry to filter to only changes that affected that resource. Select two versions of that resource, then **DIFF** to see what changed:

![A screenshot showing the diff of a change to a route, adding a policy](./img/reports/reports-deployments-diff.png)

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Runtime (Enterprise)

In the **Runtime** dashboard, you can monitor how many system resources Pomerium is consuming. Filter by date range, service, and instance.

![The Runtime Info page in Pomerium Enterprise](./img/metrics/reports-runtime-fullpage.png)

> ## Sessions (Enterprise)

Reviewer: This section is unrelated to metrics and need be moved to a separate section.

Author: Same question as above.
